---
layout: post
title:  "When My Literary Skills Helped Me Achieve a Personal Goal"
date:   2017-06-29 16:50:09 +0000
---

“This should be it”, I told myself. I had just finished writing an essay for admission to an online undergraduate degree program. Writing an essay 19 years after college proved difficult. It wasn’t the thinking that was tough. It was the requirement to compose your ideas in a structured format such that the reader/evaluator can comprehend what you want to convey. It definitely was not as easy as talking to someone face-to-face. When I was told I needed to submit an essay as a necessary component of my admission process, I was flustered. I couldn’t quite understand why an essay or my performance therein would matter in an Information Technology course. All it took me to understand why, was to sit down and try to accomplish the task at hand. Be it any degree or endeavor – what good is your knowledge if you cannot convey and share it?
Going back to college was an important decision. After years of working in the same industry, I wanted to change careers. Do something that that spoke to my passion. Forced me to think differently. Tease my brain cells with every task, every day. And that is when I found Cybersecurity. I was enamored with the depth of this domain, the multi-faceted opportunities available and the fact that I found myself increasingly spending more time reading and practicing on my home computer convinced me that this was the route to go. I would read articles by many security experts/researchers trying to understand what they were trying to convey. I would read and re-read articles so I don’t forget key concepts. I would read about technology news every day and about vulnerabilities out there keeping security researchers awake at night. I imagined myself one day being able to write articles as a security expert, and that only motivated me to immerse myself further in my studies/research.
So when I was asked to write an essay for my admission, I tried to think like I would if I were a security researcher. When these articles are published, one cannot always assume that your audience is as well-versed as you are with the technical jargon. If you cannot get through to your audience, what is the point of writing at all? It takes patience and a degree of empathy (if I may) in order to translate core technological terms and ideas to something that a general reader can understand. I tried to use this same standard to my admission essay. Once I accomplished this, I would be one step closer to my goal – being admitted to my degree program so I can one day actually write articles on Cybersecurity. 
I am glad I took the time and effort to write that essay. Thankfully it appears I was able to convey my points as expected since I was admitted to the program. It paid off to think about a current task (one that you have no clue about), extrapolate it to a future you want, draw a parallel and execute. What that essay also taught me was something I try to remember every day – I will never know everything but I will put in the effort to learn and execute one step at a time. And here i am at Flatiron as well, trying to learn something that I have never done before either!
Slow progress is better than not moving. And as I am about to finish the first term of my college degree and about halfway through my first track at Flatiron, I am proud that I have also gained industry certifications in Information Technology. When I encounter subjects in IT that I have no exposure to – I try to tackle them like I had to think about an essay 19 years out of college – one step at a time. Who knew an essay for admission to a college would change my perspective on life, and my life itself?

